# lib-sync

libsync has some useful tools for managing your music library.

- `sync` syncs your rekordbox playlists to spotify playlists.
- `analyze` analyzes your rekordbox library.
- `id` identifies songs from a recording or youtube set.

## user guide

### prereqs

- [python 3.10](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-31010/) installed locally
- `.env` file in the root directory with client ID and secret
  - go to the [Spotify developers dashboard](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard) and go to Create App to get a client ID and secret
  - copy `.example.env` from this directory into a new file `.env` in the same directory and add your `id` and `secret`

### setup

in this directory, run:

```bash
python3.10 -m venv .venv  # create python virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate  # activate virtual environment
pip install -r requirements.txt  # install dependencies
```

### sync

- export your rekordbox library as xml (remember where you save the file)

```bash
python libsync/libsync.py sync -h   # display help page

python libsync/libsync.py sync \
--rekordbox_xml_path ${HOME}/Documents/rekordbox_export.xml \
--create_collection_playlist
```

#### manually fixing the mappings

TODO: add more details to this section
TODO: get markdown autoformatter

After running the sync command at least once for your library, you can update the `spotify URL (input)` column in the `data/*.csv` file generated by libsync. Just paste in the track's spotify URL. Then next time you sync, libsync will pick up those new mappings and update your playlists. For songs you know are not on Spotify, update the column with `libsync:NOT_ON_SPOTIFY` so libsync knows to stop looking for it.

If you want libsync to redo the auto mapping process for a previously analyzed song, you can tag it with a `1` in the `Retry auto match (input)` column in the csv. This can be useful if a song is newly posted on Spotify, or to take advantage of libsync improvements. This will override the `libsync:NOT_ON_SPOTIFY` flag.

### analyze

```bash
python libsync/libsync.py analyze -h
```

## dev guide

### quickstart

one time setup:

```bash
python3.10 -m venv .venv
```

activate python virtual environment and update dependencies (after each pull):

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
pre-commit install
```

use `--verbose` or `-v` before the subcommand to increase the verbosity of logging to the console.
use one `-v` for INFO level, two for DEBUG level.
to run with sample data:

```bash
python libsync/libsync.py \
--verbose \
--verbose \
sync \
--rekordbox_xml_path sample_data/example_rekordbox_export.xml \
--create_collection_playlist
```

to run with prod data:

```bash
python libsync/libsync.py \
--verbose \
--verbose \
sync \
--rekordbox_xml_path ${HOME}/Documents/rekordbox_export.xml \
--create_collection_playlist
```

to run analysis command:

```bash
python libsync/libsync.py analyze \
--rekordbox_xml_path sample_data/example_rekordbox_export.xml \

python libsync/libsync.py analyze \
--rekordbox_xml_path ${HOME}/Documents/rekordbox_export.xml
```

to run id command:

```bash
python libsync/libsync.py id file \
--recording_audio_file_path sample_data/file.mp3 \
```

```bash
python libsync/libsync.py id youtube \
--youtube_url https://www.youtube.com/watch\?v\=6qSnO5U95yU \
```

## linting/formatting

you don't have to worry

# TODO

- multithread shazam process
- connect id tool to spotify mapper and playlist creator
- add editor step before uploading sjpotify playlist
  - maybe just save mappings in a human readable file instead of pickled
  - remember mappings from rekordbox ids and youtube ids
